# DH150 Assignment 2: Usability Testing by Annya Dahmani

## Introduction
<a href= "https://www.joyofbaking.com/"> Joy of Baking </a> is a baking website created by baker Stephanie Jawarksi. She started the website in 1997 as a way to engage with other bakers on the web who have the same love for baking and passion for deserts as she does. This website provides bakers with thousands of delicious desert ideas from cakes to cupcakes to scones to cookies to many more. Users are able to access recipes with videos, ingredients, pictures, back stories, and other information.

## Purpose of Usability Testing
Usability testing is very important in UX design and research. The goal of usability  testing is to improve the usability of a product. And in order to do this, we must address the usefulness and satisfaction of the design, eliminating frustration, and improving profitability. The purpose of UT is to get real-life people to examine a website or app and get their thoughts on what they're looking at. These people are able to idenitfy issues that those who were in charge of and familiar with the website or app wouldn't be able to identify because they are around it so much. It's important to have an outside source looking at a website or app because there is less bias when it's someone else revealing issues with the website or  app - and often times these people can see things about the website or app that creators wouldn't have been able to identify. In usability testing, these users are testing the functionality of the website or app by completing tasks while using them. Usability testing is also a good way to see how users will behave and think when they are navigating the website or app as they provide insightful, helpful, and valuable feedback for the improvement of websites or apps.

## Based off my heuristic evaluation
Based off my heuristic evaluation, I want to test how the lack of a filter or sort method affects the usability of the website. I also wanted to look at the effect of user freedom where there is no back function to take users to the previous page. I also wanted to look at how the non-minimalist design affected how fast and difficult it would be to find something specific in the recipe. The first task has to do with searching for a recipe, finding a specific ingredient, and finding related recipes to the one searched. The second task had to do with searching for a recipe, finding a specific recipe, going back to the original search and finding a recipe that was vegan, and then finding a recipe that took a certain amount of time to prepare. The third task had to do with looking for a recipe without the search bar feature, finding a specific recipe, and finding the size of a recipe. In my heuristics evaluation I stated that the website's usability would be improved with a filter or sort method, a back button integration, and the design of the site being more minimalist and examined whether the particpant thought and behaved similarily to my evaluation.

## Process
The design of this Pilot UT included: orientation script, informed consent form, pre-test questionnaire, three tasks, post-test  questionnaire, system usability scale, product satisfaction cards, and demographic questions. The participant was my twin sister, Katia. I moderated the usabiliy test from Los Angeles and my sister is in San Diego, so I used the Zoom application to meet with her virtually as well as using the Zoom record feature. There were a couple of times  where the internet connection was unstable, so I would pause the recording and then play it once the internet connection was better. The **orientation script** was an introduction to what was going to be happening and what the participant should expect in this UT. The **informed consent** was letting the participant know that they were being recorded and having them agree to it. The **pre-test questionnaire** looked at the first impressions of the home page. The three **task scenarios** measured how the participant was interacting with the page on the different tasks based on my heuristic evaluation. The **post-test questionaire** looked at how the participant reflected on their experience on the website and had them answer questions on their experience with the taks. The **system usability scale** looked at the participant's attitudes when navigating the site. The **product satisfaction cards** looked at what adjectives related to the particpant's thoughts on the site. The **demographics questions** looked at the participants demographics. However, I stopped the recording for this section as it supposed to be anonymous and confidential. I measured the ease of use, likelihood of doing the task outside the survey, and the time it took to complete tasks. The total time it took for the participant to complete the form and tasks was a little less than 20 minutes. The recording is a little longer than 17 minutes and does not including the filling out of the demographics section.

## Links
Below are the Pilot UT Survey and Video. Professor Cho is a collaborator on the survey. Anyone on the internet with the link to the Pilot UT Video is granted access to watching it.
<ul>
  <li> <a href="https://forms.gle/Bk5PBGuqmwMrTKWz7"> Pilot UT Survey </a>  </li>
  <li> <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P7sScv79-jr4sUzGDA_a4gheVoNyseey/view?usp=sharing"> Pilot UT Video </a> </li>
  </ul>

## Reflection
Reflecting on this usability testing, it went quite smoothly overall. One thing that I would critique on is that the partcipant, my sister, wasn't the perfect participant for this UT. Although my sister does enjoy baking, she does not fit the "mid-aged woman" requirement for this project. My sister is instead 20 years old. This is important to state because 20 year olds are more likely to navigate sites easier than mid-aged people. Furthermore, I think the fact that I personally knew the participant made the UT not as accurate, because UTs are often times with random people. Another thing worth mentioning was that the participants background would sometimes have a man speaking in the background.


I noticed that there were some times that the participant didn't thoroughly understand that some of the heuristics had major usability issues. For example, the coffee cake recipe wouldn't open if a user clicked on it. However, my participant didn't seem to notice and clicked on it multiple times until it had finally opened. In addition, the participant didn't understand the problem with freedom of control, where there was no back button. She acknowledged the lack and confusion of a no-back feature, but instead tried to work around it by going to the previous tab on Safari (not a website feature). At some point I was unsure whether to address this factor with the participant, but decided not to as the UT is not supposed to be bias and let the participant navigate the site on their own. Another thing the participant tried to figure out was if vegan meant "eggless" and tried to look for eggless recipes. However, this was not the point of the task - the point was showing there should be some sort of vegan filter where a user has the freedom to search for vegan options specifically.


I think I did a good job with giving the participant encouragement. However, I think there were a couple of times I could have been a little more encouranging when she was confused instead of letting her deal with her confusion on her own. I think I did a good job with my body language. However, because this wasn't in person, body language is more important, obvious, and plays a bigger role in a in-person UT. I maintained a neutral facial expression throughout. Sometimes I had to catch myself from interrupting the participant, which I had to mentally keep track of. Another thing was there were times where I was unprofessional just because I know the participant and there would be something she would do or say that would make me smile or laugh or try to hold in a laugh. I think I could have improved on knowing how long of time to give the participant to try to figure out how to answer or navigate the task. I sometimes felt myself being agressive when telling the participant they no longer had time to complete the rest of the task; because the task itself is supposed to be impossible. My sister is very determined to keep do something until she gets it right, which was hard for me to tell her to keep continuing with the survey and go on to the next task when she could not (rightfully) locate something.


In conclusion, I think that with more practice makes more perfect in terms of usability tests. The more practice I get at talking and interacting with people in a UT environment, the better I would get after each test. I think in the future I could improve my UT by interupting less and engaging with the participant more as well as getting a better feel of how long I should give a participant to try to accomplish a task without sounding too agressive. I think I should try to make sure that the participant and moderator both have stable internet connection, as unstable internet connection affects the flow of the UT.
